Now I also want to use this fun family for the header title.
So here in my head are a component on the header title.
I also want to set the font family to open dash sense dash bold so that we use that there as well.
And for all our text in this application I actually want to use my open sense fund.
So for example in these start games green here we have our text select the number and to use d normal
open Sans font we can of course assign a style there and then use styles text for example and add this
textile here at the bottom and then use font family open dash sense now that works but it of course
has a downside.
The downside is that you now manually need to add this font family to any text in your app where you
want to use it and you have to edit directly on the text components you can't added to a view.
And for example set this on the screen here and rely on that being passed down to nested texts.
Unfortunately this does not work.
So if I would go to the screen here and I set font family to open sans bold so that we can easily see
if it works or not you see this is clearly not bold select the number is not bold.
So passing it down like this like it works and see us S does not work because that isn't C has assets
javascript and what you apply on an object is only applied on the element on the component where this
style object is attached to.
So we would have to style this text individually but again re creating that style over and over again
and all the different places might not be what you want to do in the end.
There are two work arounds or work around always sounds a bit dirty.
Two ways of handling this in a more elegant way.
One is that you create a separate component maybe a body text component or just a text component whatever
you want to name it and I'll name it.
Body Text J.S. and it will be a very simple component.
I just import react from react and I import text and style sheet
from React Native here and then the body text component here gets props and simply returns my text component
here raw output props.
Children in between the text tax so that we can pass content to body text by passing it between the
opening and closing body text tag when we use this component.
Then here I have my styles and there I use style sheet create.
And of course I export this component like this.
And now here in this style sheet I simply set one style which I apply here to this text.
Styles.
Body or whatever you want to name it have the body style here.
And the one style I set is fun family open sense and I'll use bold for now so that we can see that this
really has an effect.
Before I change it to be a bit harder to see open sands so open sans bold.
And now it does this a very simple component just a thin wrapper around the normal text but a thin wrapper
that always sets this font family.
And this means that whenever we want to have text that uses this one family maybe in all places in the
app instead of using the normal text component by React Native we just use the body text component I
just created so I can import body text from components.
Body Text importing that component and now I can simply replace the text component here with body text
and if we do that we saved as we of course see that now it is will be bold.
Well if I would have used it on the right text it does is of course to you select the text it's fine
there too but I want to go here to use select it to select the number.
So if I use it there the body text wrap this text you see now it is as bold and now we can all go back
and give our body text D actually intended open sense look which is still not the default fund but which
can't immediately be seen that it's a different fund.
So this is option 1 of passing textile around or a fun family around.
You simply create your own text component which always has this font family and if you have multiple
different font families like a title and a heading you create separate components.
For example here we have a title well we maybe want to use that in other parts of the app too so we
can add a title text J File which is basically what we have in body text I'll just copy that and move
it into title text and then here we have the title text name and here it's title text and there we use
open Sands bold and maybe for the title.
Also have a font size of 18 and now again let's rename is to title maybe it makes more sense for the
style prop but now again we have a very thin wrapper around the text and in all places where we need
the title like in the header for example we can get rid of this manual style assignment here in the
header component and instead simply import our title text from the title text component and Ustad instead
of text get rid of this style assignment here.
Like that and do the same in the start game screen there.
This text can now be titled text.
All I need to do is I need to import it left me.
Import title text from the components folder and they are from title text and we can reuse this and
just as we did it before with the card for example if you want this to still be customizable so that
you could set more on the title or override the font size or add a margin as we're doing it here.
Well then what you can always do is you can still add style here to the title text refer to styles title
so to the title style I have set up down there in the start game screen and inside of the title text
component you just need to make sure you merge these incoming styles with the styles you are setting
up there.
So here style now points at aisle object where you take all the values in the titles set up here and
then merge them or overwrite them with all the values set up and props style.
And now you have an adjustable text layer which sets these default styles but which can be overwritten
and adjusted to your requirements.
Therefore we have the same look as before but now with more usability.
Now again that's option number one.
The alternative to that would be that for example in a constant folder you have your default styles
J has followed whatever you want to name it.
In India you export a default style sheet and you need to import Tisdale for import from react import
style sheet from react native
you export your default style sheet create object and there you set up like your body text for example
any name you want.
And here you set up fun family open sends and maybe just temporarily so that we can see whether it is
works give it a red color.
Now you can import this into different files.
Let's say in the game screen there we can now import default styles from the constants folder and their
default styles and if we now want dead.
Default text style.
For example here on opponents guess well then all we do is we set the stall here reach out to default
styles and point at body text and you will see if we start a game.
Now this text will be read.
So if we start to see game opponents guess is red.
So this would be an alternative to having separate components did you simply have a globally managed
style sheet which you import into different files.
And now I don't read a body text that is read but what I do want there is a title and there I wanted
a fun family of open sense bold and a font size of let's say 18.
And yes I do have the same set up in the title text.
I'm just recreating it here to show both alternatives because now with the title being set up like this
and the default style sheet we can now go to the game screen and hear not use the body text but use
the title on the opponent's guests and the result of this is that if we now restart this game we have
that nice title here.
So that's a valid alternative and it's up to you which one you prefer separate components which you
reuse instead of the text component or the text component with a globally managed style.
And as a side note in the globally managed style you're of course not restricted to managing font specific
properties you can manage any styles here so any styles that you want to share across components can
be managed in such a global style sheet that can be general layout doing setups that can be colors that
can be whatever you want but typically you always have to option between creating separate components
like the card's component which is a wrapper around the view or the body text or the title text which
are all just wrappers that add some styling or while managing this here in a global style shoot it's
up to you what you prefer.
I personally preferred the component driven approach because in the end react is all about components
and therefore I think we stay a bit closer to the default react world by doing it like this but it's
also not a decision where you always have to follow path A or path B you can mix and match these concepts.
Maybe you sometimes have something where a separate component doesn't really make a lot of sense manage
it in a global style then and in other cases maybe a custom component makes more sense than having a
global style setup.